it's interesting to me how uncomfortable
people are talking about the next 50
years the next 100 years the next 500
years thinking about culture and
politics and progress who we want to be
as individuals skilling it up what kind
of society we want to have in a larger
scale in terms of that kind of time
scale
now if you were to divide
the nations of the world into about six
categories
i'm gonna say
there are those countries that embrace
everyone from the earliest possible age
playing more and more video games
unlimited quantity
unlimited quality of video game playing
from age four age six i mean you can
play video games age four already right
and then there are those countries that
get committed to not just legally but
also you know culturally they get
committed to severely restricting the
number of hours kids play video games
and presumably discouraging also
adults from playing videos
okay
how's that going to turn out over the
next 50 years over the next 100 years
over the next 500 years if we're now at
a fork in the road where china is going
in one direction and the united states
is going in another
we talk about england we talk about
germany it's not just china versus
america right we could talk about japan
talk about taiwan talk about countries
that are really close to china and
culturally linked to china in many ways
but different in this respect okay how
do you think that's going to turn out
in the next 50 years next 200 years next
year's let me see
in case you find it
difficult to visualize what the problem
is with having all
children like from four years old to 12
years old all high school students all
university students playing video games
for unlimited numbers of hours per week
let's just propose an experiment
right here and now
in the canadian military
where we take each and every battalion
each and every job as they say in the
military and we divide them into two
parts
and we have one half of the men so like
you know guys who do air traffic control
like very specific jobs in the military
that but also say the you know the
snipers
just use these as two examples okay okay
so this half we're going to send to go
on this army base where everyone's
allowed to play video games all day all
night
every day as much as their hearts desire
they can play them on their mobile
phones they can play them
in their bunk beds they can play them
sitting up right at a computer at a
gaming pc we have
in the lunchroom can have video game
consoles unlimited video games
then we have a separate base where we
send the other half of the guys doing
the same jobs in the military so half of
the snipers half the air traffic control
guys as they're going through basic
training as they're going through their
whole training and education regimen and
we allow absolutely zero
video games on base we very strictly
force
what
what do you think the outcomes would be
who do you think's gonna do better how
about uh medical school
what which medical school do you think
it's going to produce better surgeons
and doctors right hey let's let's do it
cradle to grave you have one group of
medical doctors who have been playing
video games since age four
in unlimited amounts all the way through
to the conclusion of medical school
while they're in medical school they're
playing video games you have another
medical school where these people have
never been allowed to play videos not
even at four years old nor once they've
gone into the university level study
music what are you
what do you think okay now tell me
something do you think that's only a
problem for guys in the u.s sniper corps
like or the canadian sniper corps or
whatever guys who are snipers for the
germans do you think staying up at night
playing videos it's only a problem for
guys who are snipers or guys who are
aircraft pilots or guys who are in the
ground crew for the the air force or
you know you think that's only a problem
for search or do you think do you think
do you think that touches something
that's you know
significant in every part of human life
well a little bit of a digression here
there's another youtube channel and you
can figure out which one this is because
i don't i don't watch many
youtube channels
so the youtube channel um
who commented recently she said and she
was she was kind of mad at herself for
saying this she said that she wanted to
leave the town she's living in now
and move somewhere else
where she she'd be around young people
like i guess i don't know where she's
living she's living in some town or some
neighborhood where it seems like
everyone's retired i guess that she
didn't realize my
and she kind of got mad herself and she
said
when i say young people i mean people in
their 30s
[Laughter]
so she's herself in her 30s and she
wants to be around other people in her
30s i don't know where she's living but
i guess it's a retirement uh community
anyway i left the comment i said look
i'm just gonna keep it real with you
for me one of the best things about my
life in laos and thailand i could say
this about cambodia but
really it was laos of thailand
um
one of the best things about my life in
southeast asia was spending a lot of
quality time with people over 60 years
old you know both
you know europeans australians
foreigners in the sense but also local
local people like old old rice farmers
who had lived through the war and stuff
you know i i really felt i benefited a
lot from that and it's not easy you know
socializing with someone when you've
really got a big gap in age and
experience it's not it's work
you know when i don't drink alcohol and
pretty much all those people drink
alcohol every day you know there are
there are problems there things actually
i'm sorry i could also say this book
could make when i lived in kunming china
i talked to a lot of people
definitely over 50 over 50. i gained a
lot from that kind of uh that kind of
conversation that kind of interaction
you know
um
how much time
do children spend
talking to their grandparents
and their great-grandparents in the year
versus 1971.
okay grandparents great-grandparents we
also say kind of older aunts uncles
great aunts great uncles
i guarantee you it's less and i
guarantee you it's less because of video
games now video games movies tv it's not
just videos it's not easy for a child to
really have a quality conversation with
their grandparent it's not easy for the
grandparent to really communicate with
and say something meaningful to a child
it's not easy you know what's easy for
the grandparent to go
smoke cigarettes in the other room while
the kid is playing video games all right
it's happening on a massive scale so
it's not just your relationship to
formal education it's not just your
relationship to book learning that is
eroded in this way and you know
i would say this also about the guys in
the army you know like there are the
four there's the formal training there's
what you're supposed to learn that's
written down on a chalkboard board
written down in a textbook there's other
kinds of learning that goes on on an
army base when you're in military
service there's just sitting around with
older guys might not be easy to get
along with some of them are literally
shell-shocked they're guys who have some
level of trauma experience some of them
are just ornery some are curmudgeons you
know they're not easy to talk to and
they may be especially uh
ornery and uh curmudgeonly
when talking to a young upstart some
guys just just going through basic
training a new recruit or something
someone who's much younger
oh these young guys they don't
understand what i went through in the
war
20 years ago or whatever it is for them
you know
whatever but you know what's really
valuable what's really important is that
that older person takes the time to sit
down and talk things through with the
younger person and it can happen in a
totally spontaneous unplanned way on a
military base where you're getting that
quality interaction with an older person
video games they don't directly obstruct
that right they compete for your time in
a way that you know eliminates those
things from your life and you know i
totally get that a formal activity you
might do with your grandparents
like playing baseball playing catch with
your grandfather it's completely
meaningless
throwing the ball back and forth may be
just as meaningless as a video game now
playing poker like playing a card game
with your grandparents if you're looking
at the game itself it may be just as
meaningless but the in-depth
conversation you may have with your
grandparents or again with the older
guys on the army base when you're just
spending time with them
peeling potatoes shining shoes chopping
firewood you know whatever they're all
kinds of money tests whether it's with
your grandparents or with older guys in
the military or with other people at
your medical school there's a lot of
learning that goes on the rest of the
time that playing video games you know
destroys so you say when you look at the
map of the world
it's a great comment shout out to barry
scott barry scott says i would love to
see isil do a review of metal gear solid
or some other series
i have done some video game review
videos and i've i've planned to do
others so search my channel for uh c64 i
think it's one of the best videos on my
channel but i have a review of the
commodore 64 the comic 64 mini um i'm
very happy to do videos talking about
video game content but yeah if i were to
make videos talking about this stuff
probably a lot of it would be
very negative
great to see you guys in the audience
obviously this is an unscheduled
spontaneous live stream
if you guys have a second uh to hit
thumbs up uh hit thumbs up so uh eamonn
flame thanks to comment i will i will
answer i will speak to your comment in
in just a moment okay
so
you look at the map of the world
it's okay here we are in the year 2021
and there are going to be some countries
and some cultures that encourage
infinite
unlimited consumption of video games i'm
using consumption you'll see why for
simplicity's sake right obviously the
problem isn't buying video games the
problem is the number of hours you're
spending on video games i can really say
to you i know there are people who
collect what are called big box video
games if you don't know what that is
don't don't google it but you know i
understand there are people who
literally collect video games in the
same way that you would collect posters
where they want to have it for the big
box they want to have this box on their
wall and they are like
the amount of money and time you spend
like if you just buy it you have to hang
it on your wall like a poster it really
doesn't do you any harm right the
problem is the problem is actually
playing the video games how many hours
it takes out of your life
with all these knock-on consequences but
okay so you have one part of the world
that's encouraging
and allowing unlimited consumption of
video games from childhood forward and
guys it doesn't stop
being a problem in childhood we could
ask ourselves
what is the optimum number of hours per
week for a child to be playing video
games what is the optimum number of
hours per week for a teenager but you
know what let me ask you what's the
optimum number of hours per week for
that child's parents
the only place i know that's really been
honest about this problem with south
korea
obviously it's possible there have been
some documentary films made in japan and
i didn't hear about them but i know in
south korea they were it was probably
with government encouragement but they
were doing all these hard-hitting
documentaries talking about parents who
neglect their kids because they're
sitting in the back of the house or even
sitting in an internet cafe at a
computer terminal playing these video
games for hours and hours they're not
being parents because they're addicted
to video games
in the past that happened with being
addicted to playing cards being addicted
to gambling or whatever so sure in some
ways it's unsurprising but in some ways
i think it's a really significant
phenomenon that nobody has measured the
extent of because nobody wants to know i
mean there's a little bit of discourse
about that in america people who were
addicted i remember decades ago uh
people
to everquest
and then they neglected their own
children
so you know what is the optimum number
of hours
those questions still have to be asked
you're talking about people who are 20
30 40 50 60 for your for your whole life
right and the question of
what is optimal
is totally different from the question
of well what is the maximum amount of
time i can waste without my grades at
school suffering
different frame of
reference okay and if we're looking
ahead for the next 50 years
who's going to do better therefore china
or the united states of america in every
possible area of human endeavor
obviously this is a massive
advantage for china short-term and long
term if they could actually limit every
child in the country to only playing
video games for three hours a week it's
unbelievable unbelievable competitive
advantage for china on the scale of one
billion people
well over one billion now uh but anyway
one billion people if you could get
everyone in china playing video games
for only three hours per week then you
have another culture where it's 30 hours
per week
there's no there's no comparison okay
um
what's going to happen the next 50 years
when you contrast a country like japan
to an area like california
oregon
washington state british
columbia this is the west coast the
united states and canada what happens
when you compare the countries that are
implicitly or explicitly encouraging the
unlimited consumption
of illegal drugs to the countries that
are really seriously enforcing drug laws
that are really seriously
encouraging and enforcing sobriety right
how's that going to play out
10 years 50 years 100 years 500 years if
you divide the map of the world into two
kinds of countries now i admit at this
point
you've got to have some subcategories
china
japan
taiwan
singapore
these places are
anti-drug
and pro-sobriety
they're not muslim
saudi arabia
is also
pretty serious about drug policy
you know there are a lot of muslim
fundamentalist countries that are pretty
serious about keeping heroin and cocaine
and even marijuana out of people's hands
the attitude towards marijuana hashish
varies it's not the same in all muslim
countries there are some where they have
a totally permissive attitude towards
because it's a traditional local drug
you know
um
what do you think is going to happen
over the next 50 years over the next uh
500 years okay i'm just going to just
going to
pause
i got some interesting confusing
questions
so bonjour trieste says quote i can
almost predict someone will respond to
this video saying that isil is
sympathizing with totalitarianism to
defend video games i.e that in their
defense of video games they'll accuse me
of sympathizing with totalitarianism
you know
um
there's a really moving passage
in a salast
so i'm going to type out the name
because a lot of people do not know this
author so salus equals an ancient
roman author so his name has not become
famous the way plato and aristotle have
but he's just as important or more
important frankly
um
you know there's a debate that he
records in ancient rome in a particular
political crisis so different people are
standing up in the senate and debating
what should happen next
and one of the debaters i think it's
julius caesar a very young julius caesar
before he's become a dictator himself
he stands up and he says you know what
really makes rome special
is our ability to learn from our enemies
if foreign cultures and foreign nations
and foreign empires if they're doing
something right
we have the humility to put aside our
own traditions or our own our own
religious preconceptions and imitate
them in virtue imitate whatever they're
they're doing right now you know it's a
propaganda claim i mean what he actually
says it may not be factually true at all
it's he's trying to win the debate about
particular typical particular issues and
so on um
you know if the chinese are right about
something
would you be willing to disregard that
just because they're chinese i wouldn't
you know if the swiss are right about
something
if the danish are right about something
it doesn't really matter to me that they
happen to be
swiss or danish now i say this i'm
sitting in canada
and i'm
walking distance from the us border we
can see america from here when we look
south you know
i'm very we're really right on the
american border
um
there are a lot of people in america who
are aware
on some level that the swiss are doing
something right that america's doing
wrong and they get very nervous talking
about that they really have difficulty
admitting to themselves
this the swiss and the danish
are
really being tremendously successful in
areas where america is very weak or very
incompetent you know so it's very hard i
mean i remember before donald trump was
elected
uh him talking about how scotland had a
better health care system than the
united states of america now he didn't
do anything to imitate scotland's health
care system in the united states america
i would not say by the way scotland has
the world's greatest health care system
i'm not saying it's optimal i'm not
saying it's an ideal but
it's significant that you can find a
quotation from donald trump saying how
great scotland's healthcare system is
compared to the united states of america
i don't think he did a whole hell of a
lot of research to cover that you have
to be willing to learn
from your enemies
not just your friends you have to be
able to you know
you have to be able to learn from alien
and foreign cultures you have to be able
to learn from precedence from ancient
history as well as as modern history but
what works and what what doesn't
so yeah
um
all right thanks guys for all your
comments uh if you have a moment hit
thumbs up please do hit thumbs up
because it'll just result in more people
joining the conversation while this is
going on like if there are 40 people
here and we got 40 thumbs up more people
find it if you guys know anyone who
wants to join you can send a link to a
friend of yours on facebook or twitter
or something don't i never encourage
people to like spam the link to this
live stream like just dump it on the
internet where people are not interested
but if you actually know a facebook
group people are interested or you have
specific friends on facebook or twitter
or whatever um obviously i'm happy for
you to share the link too and they can
they can join the
conversation okay so look i want to talk
about three three categories here
uh and i
don't know if any one country well okay
fits into
the advantageous side of all three
distinctions maybe maybe china does i'll
have to have to think that through okay
so you have
some countries that are allowing
unlimited consumption of video games and
some that want to eliminate
with certainly the clear implication
being that video games should even be
eliminated that they should be minimized
and probably you'll start getting a lot
of social messaging basically saying
look if you're a real man you shouldn't
be playing video games at all i think
that it's both the implicit and and you
know in future it'll be the explicit
point of china's anti-video game crusade
um
there are going to be countries that are
permitting pardon me
unlimited use of
illegal drugs we took a very short walk
this morning
about 9 00 am wasn't super early maybe 8
30. 8 30 a.m let's say and just walking
down the street walking two or three
blocks in the street
we passed two different guys who had the
glass crack pipe out in front of them
with the lighter and the tinfoil
um which drug exactly they were using
what i was that would either be crack
crack cocaine fentanyl meth you know be
one of those here opiates are quite
quite popular so it could be fentanyl
obviously but these are hard drug acts
they make no effort to conceal their
drug use now we passed many others who
are drug drug addicts who were like
slumped over but we passed two who are
in the moment of lighting up with the
glass pipe visible there's absolutely no
pressure on anyone here to to conceal
their hard drug use the use of even
injecting heroin that is done openly in
public um by drug addicts here as well
as slumping over and sleeping in the
parks and sidewalks there's no right
they are under no threat there's no fear
they'll ever be they'll ever be arrested
with place now obviously it would not be
very much effort for them to just
conceal their drug it to be an addict
but actually keep it out of the public
and little children walk past the drugs
and so on so you know um
oh gosh i got someone saying that shirt
is fire
so if you don't know the if you if you
want one yourself i'm gonna do a review
of the t-shirt maker
um the shop that's providing this
service
but i haven't done a youtube video about
it yet i have both good and bad to say
about it but melissa also got one of the
hoodies out of them and we got some cups
so yeah if if you want yeah you can
yeah at this moment you have to draw
your own conclusion but when i do a
youtube video reviewing it i will say
both the good and the bad from a
customer's perspective and from a
youtube creator's
uh perspective
anyway uh
we got a comment from ariel saying
scotland actually has worse health
results than the rest of the uk
but errol are you comparing it to
florida
comparing it to california comparing it
to texas yeah i i'm aware i've lived in
scotland i'm aware scotland is not
paradise i'm aware england is not
paradise but as it was just an
interesting thing that donald trump
himself had said scotland has a better
system than than america does so that's
that's all it's one that was admitted uh
there's this movie this movie i keep
alluding to by um
by michael moore so
[Laughter]
michael moore made a movie where he
traveled around europe and talked openly
about this the ways in which different
countries in europe including um
uh italy and denmark and what have you
really are
okay really okay so michael moore
sicko
i mean it's not a brilliant film it's an
okay film but that's that's exactly that
discourse of imitating uh what other
countries have gotten right
okay um
[Music]
so if you divide up the map of the world
there are the countries that are
allowing video game addiction to run
rampant there are those that are
trying to eliminate and discourage it
there are those that are allowing drug
addiction to run rampant and even
encouraging and enabling it and then
there are those countries that are
trying to limit it and discourage it all
right
and the third most shocking most
defensive category i want to mention is
there are those countries that are
encouraging immigration that are
encouraging more refugees to settle
there that are encouraging
multiculturalism and there are those
that are trying to limit it
or minimize it right
kind of multiculturalism and
monoculturalism you could say
right so that's that's a three-way split
now
communist china
on all three it's in the stronger
category right they are discouraging
video games they're discouraging drug
addiction with brutal efficacy
right
and they're discouraging immigration
they don't want to be they they do want
to be a multicultural society but they
want them the multiple cultures they
have to be all the cultures that are
already indigenous to china that have
already been there for at least 500
years or what have you
they don't want to become a
multicultural society in another sense
they don't want to have a brazil town
in beijing they don't want to have a
venezuela town
in nanjing they want to have you know
they could think about how many millions
of people from south africa uh pardon me
i
meant to say south america think about
how many millions people from south
america would very gladly migrate to
china if they could but we could say
about south africa too how many months
people would love to
migrate from africa to china they don't
want to have a multicultural society in
that in that sense and it's a huge
struggle if you guys don't know i study
chinese as a language
it's a huge struggle just to have
everyone in china speaking the same
language because historically they did
speak many different languages there's a
very low level of mutual comprehension
between the dialects and languages that
that comprised china okay you have a
country like japan
right
currently
still in the pro video game
column they're still encouraging
unlimited amounts of video game playing
and video addiction but they're in the
anti-drug column and
anti-immigration column anti-immigration
anti-multiculturalism
okay
you have a place like currently the
united states and canada certainly the
west coast of the united states and
canada especially
pro-drug
pro-video game addiction
pro-mass immigration
multiculturalism mass refugee relocation
right how do you think that's going to
work out in 50 years
how do you think that's going to work
out
in 500 years
now the one sense in which i think this
discourse is insincere is that i think
anyone who has a background in social
science research would look at these
indicators and say it is just a matter
of time before the united states of
america admits that it's wrong and
starts imitating china
on these issues there's there's just no
other way about it there is no way we
can continue having an enormous tent
city
in venice beach california
or in seattle i mean all these cities
uh
oh philadelphia that's horrifying i
don't know if they have tents there
though i didn't see any tents but it's
just drug addicts just lying on the
street openly without tense
um portland oregon you know the mass
drug addiction epidemic being encouraged
by government authorities rather than
being prevented rather people be put in
prison and actually being you know
suppressed or what have you you know
okay well this can go on for another 10
years another 20 years but at some point
like the unbelievable disadvantage this
poses on every level like personally
like your own family your own circle of
friends as an atomized individual and
then scaling it up and talking about you
know thousands of people and your your
city your community and scaling up time
with your your province your state your
country you know your county or whatever
like at every level the disadvantage
this entails it's so stark it's so
severe it's so extreme that at some
point
government policy democratically or
undemocratically has to reverse course
we have to become
an anti-drug addict society we have to
become an anti-video game addict society
there aren't two possible viable answers
to this and the longer this goes on
if the world is divided between two
hemispheres the people who are actually
restricting and suppressing video game
addiction people are allowing it to run
rampant the advantage that the
anti-video game side has will become so
obvious to everyone frankly the chinese
will tower over us as intellectual
giants because they did not lose half of
their lives between age 10 and age 30
playing video games all right
and you can insert the most cynical
commentary here imaginable like well
if they aren't playing video games
they're going to be doing some other
[ __ ] that is just as much a waste of
their time no no and go ahead do the
you know do the research
why don't you look at what people would
do in med school if you take the class
and split it say okay 50 of the med
school students this year we're going to
put you in video game players paradise
we're going to provide you all everyone
gets a nintendo switch in their dorm
room and whatever you know we're going
to include we're going to encourage even
you know unlimited massive multiplayer
online gaming
you know and you have the the med school
we take half of the students and put
them on a different campus where there
are absolutely no video games allowed
and all the internet usage on the campus
is very strictly monitored you know no
online games
where you actually treat any kind of
video game console including a portable
one as contraband what do you think what
do you think they do with their time
when they're not playing video games for
all those hours you know the answer is
nothing in particular but that's the
time you would spend
talking to your grandparents
falling in love
having a screaming fight with the woman
you fell in love with discovering the
woman you fell in love with cheated on
you having your heart broken
i mean you know
sitting around with your friends
uh playing monopoly while listening to
rock music and chit chatting about this
and that i'm not saying you're gonna
take the time that would have gone to
video games and and spend it studying
twice as much for med school but
certainly all of us know i mean you guys
might not remember i was once challenged
on this in an interview a live interview
and um you know the guy was the guy was
basically why is it that you're
targeting video games this way
uh and he said not coloring books not
adult coloring books spending hours and
hours filling an adult compost and i
said he completely dropped it i said
do you know anyone
who ruined their university education
with adult coloring books
and then like the point was how many
people do you know who ruined their
university education through video game
addiction and you know when i say ruined
i i know there were people who dropped
out their people actually failed but
they're also people who just learned
nothing and scraped by you know bare
minimum okay so guys i'm going to check
i'm going to check some of the comments
now if you have a second hit the
hit the thumbs up button there was one i
wanted to respond to okay here we go
aemon flame ammon amon aman flame
perhaps it's pronounced
quote it's all about balance period i've
used video games for language learning
there you go
i've talked about that in other youtube
videos before so he says quote i've used
video games for language learning and
they've been very helpful however
someone playing a simple shooting game
like call of duty seems like a big waste
of time so um
the part of your comment i disagree with
eamon is balance
um
[Music]
i used to live in france
when you talk to the french about
alcohol
they say it's all about balance and what
they mean is drinking alcohol lunch and
dinner
seven days a week they think that's
balance okay there are alcoholics who
think they have a balanced relationship
to alcohol the problem with balance is
it means whatever you want to mean
people think they have a balanced
smoking habit and they don't they're
addicted to nicotine you know period
um i don't believe in balance i believe
in struggle
i think that sobriety
is
a struggle okay for me to have zero
caffeine
is a struggle it would be more
convenient for me to be a caffeine
addict just my character and what i want
to do with my life just being able to
get out of bed and
go to the gym right away after drinking
coffee there's a convenience to being
able to do it with with coffee and prop
i've never tried the other stimulus
probably adderall or something you know
it's not about balance it's about doing
the right thing because it's the right
thing to do
you know it's about
choosing the rules of the game you're
going to play and then never cheating
not even once because ultimately the
person you cheat
is yourself and look guys you know these
examples alcohol cigarettes coffee this
is easy
how hard is it to talk someone out of
using testosterone booster how hard is
it to talk them out of using steroids
how hard is it to talk about using sarms
because those are things that give a
real real benefit they physically make
you stronger they give you more
endurance they make you more awake more
alert more passionate
more effective right
um there is no balance
with using testosterone boosting drugs
steroids there's none you can't balance
it you have to do the right thing
because that's the right thing to do you
have to lose
rather than win
because you refuse to use a
performance-enhancing drug that would
make you win instead of lose performance
dancing drugs again steroids etc
it's not the difference between third
place and second place it's the
difference between first place and last
place you know it's different you win or
lose
in so many sports and so many
competitions and it makes you more
handsome and more charismatic and more
attractive
changes your whole life and we walk past
just walking today we walked past
several guys who were on steroids i i'm
there's no doubt in my day i am certain
i don't know if you noticed them like we
didn't talk about it yes melissa noticed
too
just
not even going to the gym
just walking around we pass men who are
very obviously on steroids back when we
went to a certain gym we saw a lot of
women who were on steroids at that at
that gym it was a really hardcore
uh lifting gym
um
so no it's not about balance you can
never let people decide for themselves
what balance means
um because balance
for most people most of the time means a
life of total
short-term selfish
self-indulgence i'm just gonna read that
total
short-term
selfish
self-indulgence so i saw another youtube
channel who said quite self-righteously
that he is morally opposed to china's
video game ban limiting video games to
three uh three hours per week
because he believes as a parent this
guy's never been a parent he doesn't
have kids never think
he believes as a parent all you need to
do is divide your child's time
between homework
chores
and their entertainment
and that just like an adult who has a
job
when you've done your job and you've
done your chores then you're you the
rest of your time
can be and should be completely devoted
just to your entertainment just to your
self intelligence and from his
perspective it doesn't make any
difference whether you're playing video
games or
i don't know going to a rifle range and
shooting targets or something
so this is a model of what it means to
be a human being this is a model of a
meaningless life
where you are profoundly and utterly
committed just to your own
self-indulgence
right
that's not what it takes to be a parent
that's not what it takes to be a child
that's not what it takes to be an adult
divide the world's surface into two
types of countries countries and
cultures where people really take
seriously that they have a higher
purpose in this world
and countries where they think it
doesn't matter if you play video games
for 30 hours a week doesn't matter if
you play video games in all your free
time the minute you finish your homework
the minute you finished doing the dishes
in the kitchen
because there is nothing else to be
aspired to in this life other than your
own entertainment other than just
playing video games for hours and hours
and hours or some other activity that
will be just as brainless just as
narrowly focused on your own delight
shall we say your own delight in that
moment
now
when i say higher purpose i mean
relative to
video games i do not mean this in a
religious sense but i'm going to put
religion on the table here
put it as a pawn on the chessboard so to
speak for your
for your consideration you know
each and every one of us
is the product of a process of evolution
look at the nintendo switch
holding up this glowing rectangle and
pressing a button with just the right
timing
is this what your ancestors
suffered and died for over so many
millions of years
is this what we evolved on this planet
to do
now i'll be real with you okay i'm vegan
i'm vegan for ethical
reasons i think there's actually a
pretty strong argument when people say
to me that they live to hunt not to buy
animals from a factory you know but when
people say that for them the meaning of
life is carrying on this tradition from
their ancestor and that they feel they
evolved to live this way and you know
there are people who refuse to use guns
they're people who do just bow hunting
and knife hunting you know they're
people who really do it with stone age
tools because it's more challenging
hunting with a gun is incredibly easy
it's one of the reasons there's more
than one more challenge out of going out
and trapping and killing things and they
say that look this is what they evolved
to do these are their instincts this is
their cultural tradition and that's for
them that's a big part of what it means
to be a human being i actually think
that's a that's a compelling argument
and i say that's not good enough for me
okay i say you know like okay if that's
good enough for you
that tells me something about who you
are
you know
what you're doing with the potential
you've inherited from that process of
evolution now you may not know this but
in terms of evolutionary psychology
there are people who
validate various kinds of sexual
behavior who rationalize or justify
different kind of sexually we're saying
hey this is what i was evolved to do
there's a whole dark demi-mod of the use
and abuse of the concept of evolution
to justify pursuing your your heart's
desires or even very perverse desires
you may have you may have come up with
you may have ingeniously devised
um but setting that aside you know when
we're looking at the reality of people
sitting for so many hours and pressing a
button on the nintendo switch
sitting at their desk clicking a mouse
so they can play rainbow six or you know
call of duty or what have you
it's so low
that we can ask in a meaningful sense
weren't you born
to do something better than this aren't
you the inheritor of this dna produced
through millions of years of evolution
and the inheritor of this quality of
life produced through the last few
thousand years or last few centuries of
struggle you know just just the fact
that i can use a toilet and have running
water and i can read by electrical light
it's so easy to read a book now it's so
easy to afford a book too compared to
just 200 years ago you know in this
totally different world we live in this
way i was reading um
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
and you know he describes you as a
younger man how difficult it was to get
books how difficult it was to get
candles
and he uh he read he would get books
from a publisher or from a warehouse
from a shop handling book he was
involved in publishing but then also you
know bookstores and he had a
relationship with some of the
booksellers and they'd let him take a
book like when he left work at eight
o'clock at night and they'd say okay but
bring it back by seven o'clock tomorrow
because i got to put it back on the
shelf to sell it you know he'd get to
read books furiously he'd stay up at
night reading a book he couldn't afford
to buy you know books were scarce and
books were expensive okay so you've
inherited all this and you don't have a
higher purpose than sitting there and
and pressing that button and acting out
these violent fantasies again and again
sometimes they're sexual fantasies some
video games sexuality is part of what
makes it um appealing okay um you know i
think that's i think that's a question
that really
answers itself and now
i am a nihilistic atheist
but nevertheless as low as our religious
ideals are i think it's interesting that
they're still high enough
to debunk
the status of video games in 21st
century culture where you can ask the
question you know is this
what you were put on this earth for you
know if if you believe in god is this
what you think god created you for you
know what i mean whatever religious
tradition you if you're fro if you're a
buddhist is this what you think you were
reincarnated for you know um
now i i repudiate all of those religious
ideals and ideologies you know i i
not in a trivial sense i really do
reject them
root and branch
nevertheless
playing video games it's so bad it's so
awful that these questions start to
become meaningful i think many of you
will have the experience with your own
friends and relatives with that with
drug addiction
where drug addicts start asking
themselves tough questions like oh do
you think you were evolved
just to take the crushed up resin from
this plant and inject it into your
bloodstream or do you think god created
you just so you could snort this powder
up your nose you know it doesn't make
sense it doesn't make sense from a
scientific perspective it doesn't make
sense from a religious perspective it
doesn't make sense from any perspective
but you got to have one perspective or
another and that perspective cannot be
one where you're committed to
self-indulgence and where you feel that
your only obligation in life is to do
your job and do your chores clean your
own dishes and then everything else in
your life is self-indulgent and you
can't look at children and say well
their only obligation is to do their
homework do their chores then everything
else is so often though it's great to
have 42 people in the audience i'd
prefer if i had 42 thumbs up also it
will help other people discover the
video i'm catching up with your with
your comments now
so there's a question kind of directly
and indirectly being raised by a few
different people
um
[Music]
i think some of you want to ask
what is the difference between playing
video games and watching movies uh none
of you said something that simple or
stupid you said some intelligent things
from different
um
it is different
i sit here and tell you that watching
movies has some tremendously
educational value
but probably most of you in this
audience can remember seeing a movie
maybe with a grandparent as a child
and then asking them to explain to you
what happened or why certain things
happen where you ask questions you watch
and you're not sure what's going on now
today most people can pause movies you
know what i mean
but normally you know watching a movie
with parent with your older brother
you know this kind of thing
you know
it is i mean it is it is educational in
these ways i can definitely remember his
child learning words and vocabulary from
movies and so on now
i'm not here to praise watching a movie
with your grandparents as wonderful
not
but when we're making the comparison to
video games video games are so low
that still watching movies is better now
again if you talk about if you say
television television includes watching
the news
uh melissa and i just watched a video
the other day about the history of the
vietnam war
you can you know obviously i think a lot
of children learn about the vietnam war
learn about world war ii for the first
time by watching a movie about it
now in a lot of that learning is bad
i have a video criticizing pocahontas
not that many people watch that video i
totally
totally encourage you to uh
watch and share my video about about how
awful pocahontas is this is a disney
movie
you know well uh probably a lot of
showing the first time they ever thought
about native americans or native
american genocide or indigenous peoples
or colonism probably walt disney's movie
pokemon is the first time they they
heard any of those words or thought
about any of those concepts you know
um
right and melissa just said you will not
get that from candy crush
right you won't get it from super mario
brothers and so on too so you know the i
i think these are
um so i'll just say that is uh that is
the disney video
so you know uh as with many of my um
as with many of my my
kind of critiques of 21st century
society i do admit a difference between
degrees of bad and worse
and i do with video games also really i
feel now more than ever that video games
after the year 1997 are so much worse
than video games before the year 1997. i
think there's a big difference between
online gaming and offline gaming i think
there's a big difference between current
gen games
and say a video game from 1992 or 1995.
um there's a video game i played for
just a couple minutes last week and i
say why i know it's a couple minutes
i only noticed they're playing for a
while that it actually had a timer in
the top left corner and it felt to me
like i'd been playing for a long time
but i actually saw it was like wow that
was only five minutes and i lost
interest and went back to my life
because i'm not really interested in
video games uh i've mentioned um pac-man
champion edition that we're sorry
championship edition pac-man that is a
timer and i believe the maximum length
you can play is five minutes so you play
that you go oh that was two minutes
it's not the same i mean it's it's
pac-man it's an incredibly simple game
you know
um
and you know i've criticized numerous
other youtube channels for playing games
that take up hundreds of hours so
whenever that the fact that one thing is
better than another or the fact that one
thing is worse than another by degrees i
don't think that bears on you know the
question we're asking here and by the
way i mean you could say this about
about um addictive drugs too you know
okay
is heroin better or worse than cocaine
or fentanyl there may be significant
degrees of difference but i'm against
all of them you know what i mean i'm
against all these drugs so you know but
i i can also admit and we can discuss
the extent to which one is is better or
worse than another so it doesn't um
[Music]
it doesn't really touch the primary
premise here in any way whatsoever to
admit that there are details there are
gradients there are these contradictions
tcat shouts out duke duke nukem from
1991. so yeah where are you going to
where are you going to draw the line you
play duke number 191 i think i have a
question for you i think um
i think virtual fighter one
is from before before 1997 but maybe not
virtual fighter
3.
so you know it's something like that
where is the cut off
so yeah virtual fighter 2 is 1994. i
know maybe i should make it 95 instead
of 97. you know uh some something like
that
okay sir i'm just i'm just catching up
with your your other comments guys
thanks thanks for any thumbs up again
and we'll see if some more people join
the conversation melissa may also sign
the chairman i'm just reading now but
i'll get you you you want to show me now
it came up in conversation that our eyes
were not evolved
some people can say well
is this what millions of years of
evolution is
designed for us reading i agree um
no i think that makes it deeper go on i
don't think that challenges the premise
but it makes it deeper yeah but
this issue with uh watching movies or
reading where you're consuming something
you're at least uh
it's not as exhausting i find video
games so exhausting now i don't know why
you do i don't
uh you know were you were you drinking
caffeine when you were younger and doing
videos yeah
when melissa and i have played video
games just for a couple minutes here and
there we played puyo puyo
it's no
more than a month ago like just hey look
the amount of time we play spent in
playing videos per month is very very
little despite the fact that i own a ton
of hardware we have an amazing
collection of video game but we really
do
um
but yeah i noticed that you really
quickly get tired uh just it just
seemingly exhausted but i guess you were
drinking a lot of caffeine
uh before so look uh melissa was
reminding me of something i said maybe
even just earlier today but today or
yesterday um and i was pointing this out
in terms of the limits of reasoning
through things in terms of what's
natural and unnatural or how unnatural
something is by degrees
and you know i just said to melissa our
eyes are not evolved to read text on a
page which is very true
and by the way when i was really pushing
my limits in terms of language learning
uh working on pali and cambodian and
lotion and tai and several other
languages simultaneously you know
several different systems of writing for
pali so i wrote pali using burmese
you could really feel it you really feel
this is not you know this is not natural
the function of your eye is exactly to
do things like
notice
uh fruit on a fruit tree and notice a
snake in the grass you'd be amazed at
how vivid your perception is when
there's a snake moving in the grass
toward you you see it it's the most
subtle shape by the way the the way this
the grass moves the pattern of the grass
moving revealing the the shape of the
snake
you see it that leaps right out at you
guys you got millions of years of
evolution oh and by the way yeah okay
my ability to see how attractive a woman
is to see the shape of a woman's body my
ex-wife like to joke around with me
about that more than than melissa does
it's not melissa doesn't about but you
know i remember my ex-wife she would
always give her she said you can tell
you can tell how sexy a woman is even if
she's wearing you know dungarees if
you're just wearing bib overalls or
she's wearing a burlap sack or something
you know where the whale the clothes
move on the woman i'm not saying a woman
wearing a bathing suit like a woman
who's like really wearing baggy clothes
and you have millions of years of
evolution that tells you the shape of
that woman's body and how attracted you
are to her shirt there's all kinds of
really shallow stuff you are
evolved to perceive i think you're also
very much evolved to make certain kinds
of judgments about people
um
well there's something wrong with this
guy you know it's nothing you can tell
that he's lying to you but you can tell
that he's shaky you can tell there's
something wrong certain apprehensions
about people and their behavior you know
doubtless is also you know these things
are natural doesn't mean they're
inerrant
doesn't mean you won't be wrong
nine times out of ten even you know what
i mean but this is what you're what
you're set up to and yeah reading a book
is fundamentally unnatural it is
fundamentally something we're not
or not um
of all to do so no i i really do feel
the limits of that critique what are you
going to say
i mean like anything
i just feel
that that argument is so limited but i
didn't want to bring it up right no okay
so look but you guys may not be able to
hear melissa
i agree that this argument is limited
but
it still applies to video games like
it's still really useful in this con so
like to give an example okay so how
limited is this concept of nature
if someone said to me that they were
considering studying politics in
university but they decided to instead
go into sculpture because they think
that's more natural that the study of
politics that is completely ridiculous
you cannot make this you cannot discern
between
uh sculpture versus politics through
nate now there are a lot of different
criteria we can bring in um
someone said they were thinking about
studying physics you know the science of
physics but they decided that was too
unnatural so instead they were going to
do politics or literature or something
this makes no sense this is a
nonsensical
application but still within those
limits it is meaningful it still is
important to talk about and
uh you know i mean to mention the
original context that you and i were
were joking about that we were talking
about the delusion of jordan peterson
um
how does jordan peterson convince
himself that you were evolved to eat a
100 meat diet so he and his daughter
both they claim they eat nothing but
meat and salt
and so you know
you would have to have a tremendous
delusion about a revolution that we were
evolved to live like a python again just
to eat nothing but meat well even then
it's cooked meat doesn't make sense
because we wouldn't be involved to eat
cooked meat in these quantities to have
a wonderful time so no nature matters
nature is a meaningful criterion within
limits
and you have to be explicit about what
those limits are but that doesn't mean
it's
it's invalid
absolutely now why am i so comfortable
saying this it's not because i'm a
background in philosophy it's because of
my background in politics so polling
data
polls matter guys there are a lot of
questions where polling matters but
within limits there are some questions
you can never solve through a poll and
never solve even through a plebiscite
you know but there are some there are
some things you can get at through
pulling and some things you can't so i
think but that doesn't invalidate
polling you know what i mean
um
polling can be tremendously powerful an
important tool but you you have to
really be aware of the limits of any
kind of you know social science tool any
kind of measuring tool in this in the
social sciences
okay um
barry scott says hey barry i hope you're
still here in the audience barry says
maybe you should interview cameron adair
from game quitters
cameron adair is a complete [ __ ] i've
talked to him he is one of the nastiest
people i've ever interacted with on the
internet i'm not the first person to say
that i believe if you put into google
right now
uh cameron adair thailand dj
you are going to find that he has been
living as a uh
living as a dj in thailand
um he is a really uh you misspelled his
name
and there's an i in there so i think
there's a i think there's a different
spelling of it um
you know that guy is a really nasty
piece of work
anyway i'm not actually i'm not sure how
you've you've misspelled his name or if
he deleted all the stuff about us
about his djing
now the the the message of his
foundation about about quitting video
games it's so fundamental and it's so
necessary that obviously he's getting a
lot of positive press a lot of positive
response from parents i understand that
people are desperate they need someone
anyone to help them
but uh
if there is anyone on the internet i
would warn you against it would be
cameron adair
so too bad and a lot of things are like
that on the internet he is a
self-appointed expert and he has
absolutely none of the
uh redeeming qualities that you would
need to to play that role i would
compare that to by the way people who
are former antarctics and they have
their own you know if they have their
own experience anorexia
and they like they overcame anorexia
that doesn't mean they can help anyone
else that doesn't mean they're the right
person to lead a foundation or whatever
you know
okay so we have uh an intentionally
offensive comment for someone who's
probably not here
anymore people tend to make this going
to come and leave so someone called
fchtvh
says quote such a boomer attack from
from a man who grew up with what seems
like colorless tvs comma focus on
age-related comments okay so fch tbh
if i may call you that
which country do you think will have an
advantage
the country that continues to encourage
video game addiction and drug addiction
or a country that really sincerely tries
to stamp those out tries to eliminate
let's just say to simplify it tries to
eliminate the playing of video games and
eliminate the recreational use of
mind-altering drugs
we don't have to compare china to the
united states of america there are a lot
of different issues there we could def
we could divide japan into two halves
north and south we could divide america
into two halves east and west say okay
half of america are going to put up a
border in the middle half of america is
going to be pro video game and pro
unlimited decriminalized drug use
and half america is going to go the
other extreme and it's going to really
seriously eliminate video games and drug
addiction at least to the same extent as
communist china maybe even more so
where do you think those two societies
will be 10 years from now 50 years from
now 500 years from now i don't think
there's anyone who has any doubt if you
divide america into two halves with
those two strategies
there will be an advantage in every area
of society to
the half of america that rejects both
video game addiction and drug addiction
i don't think there even is a counter
argument
[Music]
now again
video games and drug addiction they are
such extreme examples that this is easy
to say right
am i comfortable making the same claim
about gambling you know i'm really
opposed to gambling i am
but i think someone could could say or
suggest or argue that there's some
cultural benefit to gambling gambling is
linked to
up comedy and dance and music and the
celebration enjoyment of life someone
could try to make some kind of argument
that there were enough kind of
incidental benefits to you know las
vegas having evan gambling um i am i am
morally opposed to you i think if you
divided america to two halves one of
which has unlimited gambling and one of
which has no gambling you'd have to make
a similar argument but i'm just saying
this issue with video game addiction
we're talking about childhood as well as
adulthood growing up
playing video games for dozens of hours
per week for more than 10 hours per week
with every day every day school ends
rushing home to play
video games
there's there's no counter argument
there at least with drug addiction
people start a little bit later in life
you know
so eliza asks quote i'm curious what is
your idea of spending your free time
meaningfully i think i've done so many
video games i think i've done so many
videos talking about that so eliza i
have to invoke what i call youtubers
privilege here and say i'm sorry i've
made so many videos talking about that
uh that i'm not gonna i'm not gonna talk
about but great question and i'm always
happy to talk about that and i've talked
about it probably a dozen times
from a dozen different angles i also
think that my book uh so my book is
titled no more manifestos but it's
partly a philosophy of how to live a
meaningful life and how to be a creative
person it's a bit of a philosophy of art
too that book will have some some very
provocative answers to that question
right it's it's much more
my videos are relatively friendly to you
um it's friendly the right word
uh that that book makes some real
demands of you where it says look either
you're going to live up to this or not
kind of thing um
so the book is is a little bit more of
an abrasive and abrupt and honest way of
confronting you with what it means to
live a a meaningful life whereas i think
most of my videos
they relatively gently introduce you to
the answer to that question but the
implications are not so gentle they're
hard to live with
all right
tcat comments quote the video game
industry is a 180 billion dollar
industry that averages 10 growth per
year with more people having less social
connections do you think soft legal bans
in the west are even possible
well
you know the short answer is of course
yes i mean you just want a yes or no
answer you know of course the answer is
yes
um
[Music]
you know the more interesting point is
this
in a democracy people find it very easy
to offer judgments about what would be
in everyone's benefit what would be in
everyone's best interest and they find
it very difficult to make decisions
about what would be in their own
interests or their employees best
interests like the people whose lives
they directly
affect like when you're an employer
employee or you're a husband it's your
own family so i'll give you an example
let's say you live right now
in louisiana
and in louisiana
in theory nobody is racist but everyone
knows there are some schools that have
only black people and there are some
schools that have only white people
there are some schools that have only
rich people and some schools that have
only poor people now when people make
decisions for themselves and for their
own family or as an employer for
themselves and their employees they make
completely selfish and ultimately kind
of socially destructive decisions where
they just say okay well my children need
a good education so i'm going to move to
this suburb and pay for them to go to
this relatively wealthy school they
personally are not going to do anything
to help poor black people right but you
can have a referendum where you say look
guys here's what we really have to do we
have to completely abolish the
distinction we have right now between
private schools and public schools we
have to force rich people and poor
people black people white people all go
to the same school so it's for
everyone's benefit
and you know we have to really
meaningfully integrate the education
system you know people will vote for
that
people like they would never do that
personally they would never in an
isolated way say okay i'm going to put
my child in this school for this
altruistic reason of making society a
better place and by the way of course to
do that it would involve a budget of
many many millions of dollars or
billions of dollars to actually actually
building school facilities and things
yeah and and also for the government to
actually take away
uh the private schools and like take
them out of the pub take them out of the
private sector into the public sector
this requires the the power
and coercion of government power um
so you know
the classic textbook example is minimum
wage
every employer wants to pay their
employees as little as possible and
in every sector of the economy parents
employ their own children at less than
minimum wage so farmers if you have a
small farm
parents very often have their children
working for nothing or if they do pay
them they pay them one dollar for
something you know now that sounds
horrible why don't you pay your kids
minimum wage if you ask the parents
they'll say why should i have to pay my
own kid 15 they won't do it
you know um so that sense of
self-interest even when it's their own
child they're robbing they want their
own children to work for free or for
next to nothing and they want their own
employees to work for free or
understanding but if you have a
referendum and say for society as a
whole isn't it better for everyone that
we have a minimum wage whether it's ten
dollars an hour or fifteen dollars an
hour
and that all businesses are force people
so that's what you're getting into is um
the altruism or you could say we're
getting into the phony altruism of
coercing others to have virtues that you
do not have yourself now melissa was
just reading me the statistic i think 83
percent of parents 87 of parents in the
united states of america a poll
established 87 of parents
in the usa
oh 86 fact-checking department came
through
so not too clearly phrased so 86 percent
of parents understand america want
something to be done
to limit the number of hours their kids
are playing video games it's a problem
right
okay so we don't know exactly what the
percentage would be for the more
specific proposal like this maybe you'll
be lower eighty-six percent of parents
recognize it's a problem and then we
gotta confront them with a solution
so you asked the question do you think
soft legal bans are possible i think
hard legal bans are possible i think you
know
i think oppression is possible i do
and you know again
um
[Music]
people who would not
prevent themselves from doing certain
drugs
or drinking alcohol in certain they're
people who will absolutely swear that
they personally are fine driving a car
when they drink alcohol they personally
feel that they're skilled enough and
intelligent enough to drive a car after
drinking several beers but they don't
want other people driving after eating
several beers so this is this is one of
the most important aspects of of
democracy on a large scale
oh
is today the day that i'm going to ban
thaddeus walker from this group
thaddeus
is one of these anarcho-capital
one of these right-wing
free marketeers
who seems to think that as long as
people are paying money for something it
can't possibly do any harm to themselves
or others or to the future of society as
a whole
okay so here's another interesting point
so someone with the name sorpativ wrote
in i hope you're still in the audience
and sometimes people comment and then
they leave
sorptive said quote it's possible to
have convivial video games but not when
they are designed to capitalize on
people's free time they should be
designed by people in their free time
okay
sort of the error you made is in the
first few words here you said it's
possible
legislation is not about what's possible
it's about what's actual
it's possible
to use cocaine at such a low dose
that it has no negative consequences for
you
do you think everyone should have the
right to use cocaine that we should
legalize cocaine because some people
some incredibly small percentage of
people
will use it in a responsible way we can
even calculate what the dose is
i knew people who lived in south america
and they'd eaten the leaf of the plant
directly you do you do
you feel the cocaine that way where you
chew up
uh the leaf of the plant
and like you calculate it's you know
it's like one tenth of one percent of a
line of cocaine is in each leaf or
something it's like it's this very tiny
amount of the drug
that's in each in each leaf so you know
it may be on that scale
and they saw again obviously i don't i
don't really know what this is but
they've described to me people have done
it the effects of using these incredibly
small doses
of cocaine it's possible i don't give a
[ __ ] about what's possible i'm talking
about what's actual because i'm talking
about politics we're talking about human
nature
okay
there are all kinds of drugs that could
be used responsibly and could even have
benefits that outweigh the harms but
that's not how people actually do use
them so they have to be illegal and we
need men with guns to prevent human
beings from using them
foreign
oh
okay so a regular commentator here do
you want to give me the kiss answers
sorry asks answers isn't bad
it's not really a question it is an
answer rather than a question but
regular member of the audience do you
want to give the kiss says quote what
about a three-hour time limit on chess a
three-hour time limit on reading
philosophy or a three-hour time limit on
watching tv okay
let me ask you
do you know anyone
who dropped out of university because
they were addicted to playing chess
do you know anyone who ruined their
primary school education or their high
school education let alone their
university education because they were
addicted to playing chess
now i'm going to go in a limb here i
can't say that
nobody in the history of the world has
gotten addicted to chess that way but i
think that the people who have if you
actually saw them face to face or an
interview with them they would be people
with really severe mental abnormalities
they'd be people who had some kind of
obsessive-compulsive disorder or a
learning disability that let them become
so consumed with a simple game like
chess
to that extent
you know
you know i see what you're getting at
here but all
legislation is built on
animus
now every year a very small number of
people die
because of aspirin
you may not know this you can look it up
where you live but aspirin overdose does
kill people
um
okay aspirin is a drug that has real
benefits that has real
medical value um for some trivial
illnesses and for some very serious ones
you can make an argument that aspirin
should be illegal for the same reasons
that
heroin
cocaine and fentanyl should be illegal
and it's completely ridiculous it's
completely laughable and there would be
no sane government
ever in the history of the world there'd
no no
no no democracy and i don't even think
any any dictatorship would ever
entertain the notion of making
aspirin illegal right so you know
legislation is based on animus
legislation is based on problem solving
so is philosophy
philosophy is about problem-solving
methods so you know i understand what
you're doing here i think it's a
reasonable challenge
to put to me
um
but you know if you're asking sorry this
person else they missed the first i
think the first ninety percent of the
live streams
they joined late
um
but if you were to ask what is so
uniquely awful
about drug addiction and video games two
two separate categories that we've
talked about um we've made comparisons
about throughout the video okay well a
very very simple
criterion to bring to this is that on a
mass scale in our society people ruin
their education and they ruin their
careers both through addiction to drugs
and video games not aspirin
not chess not reading philosophy
okay so again this is so uh ron sims is
a long time view of the channel i
appreciate your support i have you but
ron
i got to tell you you're wrong and i got
to tell you you're wrong in no uncertain
terms here ron writes in and says quote
if people want to use drugs they will
find a way
that's also human nature and no men with
guns will stop them period close quote
ron you've traveled the world a little
bit what's the difference between venice
beach and downtown tokyo japan
what's the difference between
seattle
and singapore you're a [ __ ] idiot
you're not fifty percent wrong you're a
hundred percent wrong
you don't know what the [ __ ] you're
talking about
i used to live
on two different sides of the golden
triangle
okay the golden triangle at that time
one of the world's greatest crossroads
for
opium production heroin production
as a global export and also
for producing methamphetamine
and at that time they were just getting
heavily into
mdma
also known as ecstasy
production trafficking export this is
one of the great centers
of drug production in the world okay and
on the chinese side of that border
you never saw a single drug addict on
the street
once
not
once and it's all being produced right
there and there's a by the way
who do you think's profiting from it
there were armed gangs of rebels and
revolutionaries there were revolutionary
armies there on the burmese side of the
border involved in this and also of
course on the burmese side on the lotion
side they're corrupt cops and corrupt
soldiers
there were men with guns on all sides of
that equation okay and the chinese
government maintained 100
vigilance
you never saw a single drug addict
you never saw a single drug dealer
every single text message between every
two phones in that part of china was
monitored by the government we talked to
one guy who got arrested this way
uh i've afraid if he did it by email or
by telephone text message or both but a
guy who just bought marijuana in china
they intercepted his emails and text
messages they arrest and put him in jail
if anyone mentions anything like a drug
deal and you can imagine they have to
interpret a lot of slang a lot of
indirect things they are picked up and
put in jail i saw that happen to uh a
bunch of guys who were on the same bus
as me once where the
the chinese police but they look like
the army show up it was the police but
they they look like the army is showing
up they stop the bus they surround the
bus they come in and
arrest and rough up the guys and i
remember the chinese cop he just you
know
they don't have the you have the right
to remain silent thing the chinese cop
took the mobile phone
uh from this kid and he stood there and
he read out loud the messages on his
phone about about
drug dealing or drug trafficking
they took them and put them in handcuffs
and you know
um
ron you are so wrong you are so wrong
like maybe you can't imagine it like you
can't imagine the difference between
being in a city where it is completely
safe for little children to play in the
streets in duhong china right in the
golden triangle there's illegal guns
illegal forestry like illegal timber is
huge out there too illegal drug trade
one of the world's greatest center and
little children are laughing and playing
in the streets safe and their parents
don't care
all right here i am in victoria canada
whether in victoria
uh vancouver seattle
venice beach los angeles you would be
ashamed to walk down the street
holding your child's hand you would be
ashamed and afraid to have a child there
you just don't even if the drug addicts
don't attack you or something you don't
want them to see that
you know we've seen people with a needle
in their arm it's not a cosmetic
difference it's not a trivial difference
it's not just a percentage on a chart in
terms of the number of people who are
ruining their lives okay and yes i have
the honesty to tell you that all power
to regulate comes out of the barrel of a
gun
ultimately it comes down to
having the will making the resolution to
kill people to put people in jail
you know sure they can be put on drug
rehab programs and all this other stuff
too you can give them a velvet manacle
you can try to make it as humane as you
like it comes from the barrel of a gun
it comes from men with guns kicking you
on the door and putting people in jail
all right now
whether you talk about tokyo japan
or singapore
or taiwan
there are some
drug addicts there there's more than
zero there are a few
it is not at the epidemic levels in the
united states america and it is hidden
and the drugs are really sorry pardon me
the drug laws are really seriously
enforced and has a huge impact on
everyone's lives so let me just ask you
where you live you guys are from all
over the world we have 40 people in the
audience
can you read a book in a public park
melissa went out to read a book in the
park a couple weeks ago
and she just described i wasn't with her
she went alone at this park
and there were a couple of drug addicts
who had brought a mattress and put the
mattress down on the grass this isn't a
small part but it's a big part
there are a couple of them over there
sitting by the fence passed out we have
children playing in the parks here well
all around our neighborhood remember
there's the park near the church too
and like there are parents trying to
play with their children while there are
people shooting up hard drugs like
injecting hard drugs smoking hard drugs
overtly in the park and then like
sitting there and most of the time they
just black out sometimes they die
sometimes you have the
you know cops come and take away the
corpse um sometimes they black out
sometimes they're shaking or you know
leaned over in this weird way you know
and sometimes they have these piles of
garbage with them because they go around
collecting just odd objects objects no
silver like it's not even like it
doesn't look like theft to me like but
they're like worthless objects that
they've gathered from sitting in this
pile of garbage that they sit down in
because they're higher to their core
okay you don't see that
in tokyo japan you don't see that in
taiwan you don't see that in singapore
not even once
there's no tolerance for crackheads in
those countries in those legal systems
in those cultures all right these are
decisions that have really serious
consequences now if you want to make the
point that theoretically
someone in
singapore
someone in taiwan someone in tokyo can
buy themselves a can of paint thinner
and still huff paint thinner to get high
you're god damn right
you can get high on paint thinner you
can get high on shoe polish okay but
like the difference between drug addicts
being one tenth of one percent and being
like 10 percent of your society is huge
and the question of what percentage of
your
your all of the tax revenue the
government has is taken up with social
services for for drug addicts this is
these are huge huge huge decisions that
have huge long-term implications well
let's bring it back to the title in the
subject of this video though right
what percentage of your population is
addicted to video games if you take the
word addict out of the sentence what
percentage of your population is
spending what percentage of their time
playing video games and then what uh
you know
what what are the knock-on consequences
for society as a whole like you know
what happens when it's 50 percent of
people spending fifty percent of their
time playing video games what happens
when it's twenty-five percent of people
spending fifty percent of the time
playing video games
and guys sorry i've made so many videos
starting with this but we've all been
through it well like i think everyone in
this audience has at least had a period
of their life
of a few months
where they were putting like 50 percent
of their time into video games you know
i mean even if it was just a few months
when mario galaxy came out or something
right whether it was when you were a
child or a teenager you had some period
we were caught up in
um like maybe a very short term
addiction to a video game we were swept
up in enthusiasm for uh for video games
and it took over your life
you know
uh great some questions about the books
the book is called no more manifestos i
feel that i'm now just doing final
proofreading i i think i could publish
it in one week or two weeks my own
situation here has just changed
dramatically today in terms of
maybe within just a few days um i can i
can have that up for sale on uh on
amazon but i don't have a deadline um
i'm very grateful to my proofreaders
including oliver so you guys don't know
oliver shields he has he has his own
youtube channel that i've shared many
times i can give you the link now but
you know there's this guy oliver shields
uh
is his youtube channel it's his full
name i think yeah
he did proofread it and my girlfriend
melissa proofread it but i gotta tell
you something i've found errors they
didn't find you know
um and i did but but at this stage i'm
not really doing
any kind of substantial substantive
changes to it well okay i guess that's
not true either
i guess the question in my mind is
there's one book that i bought
repeatedly from amazon and still hasn't
arrived i might change a few paragraphs
in response to that book
and there's one book on the shelf there
i guess anyway
but i could i could just say no it's
enough already and not make any further
substantive revisions but yeah i i
definitely feel that's
within two weeks i could have that book
up uh for sale on on amazon
how long it takes for amazon to print it
and send it to you i don't know but
they're they're pretty quick i mean i
don't know if it takes them one week
after that or something but it might be
i bought i've bought books you know
printed by amazon that would
okay dude
you are you are safely off camera okay
oh so um we get some interesting
comments here from sorptive
talking about cleaning up the mess of an
opioid epidemic uh this was in
the 80s and 90s okay but my question is
you made the transition to what
you know
what is the transition to
people talk about now cleaning up um
venice beach
california because they've they've
forbidden uh tents
you know
but in reality you're taking the drug
addicts out of the tents
and you know
currently they've moved to being instead
under um
under paracels
and they're now in sleeping bags under
parasols
so you know there's a kind of progress
there you got rid of the tents but if
you still have the fundamental drug
addiction you know that's that's really
all there is to it
okay guys i'm going to wrap it up here i
mean i really want to close the video
just by asking again the same question i
asked in the in the opening
um
you know
i know this premise nobody has found
offensive or nobody has offered a
counter argument to which is you know
fine
um i said that if we're actually going
to divide the globe into more than one
sphere
one one part of which embraces unlimited
amounts of playing video games and
another part of which is instead trying
to limit or discourage video games
trying to get people to overcome video
game addiction trying to positively
motivate them to refuse playing video
games entirely and china really seems to
be taking the first bold step this way i
would be interested in what bhutan has
done about this the tiny country of
bhutan also has an interesting track
record this way
and actually really being concerned
about video game addiction and how much
people were watching television and
things like that
um they came into the modern
technologically sophisticated world
relatively late and relatively suddenly
but i mean to my knowledge china is
really the first country setting a
really bold precedent here
and it's going to lead to this
inevitable question if you have
one group of university students they
could all be studying english literature
they could all be studying medicine they
could all be studying physics chemistry
and it could all be military men who are
studying together to become
military engineers or to become snipers
or be in the u.s marine corps if you
divide that group of students you divide
that group of soldiers into two halves
and you have one half that's being
allowed to engage in unlimited amounts
of video game playing and another half
that is doing absolutely zero video game
playing you know there will only be
advantages and no disadvantages for the
side that's you know refusing video
games if you have half of them using
drugs and alcohol in unlimited amounts
and half of them who are in a state of
enforced absolute sobriety you know
they're going to only be advantages for
the the sober
group of students the sober cohort in
your comparative study everyone knows
this so when you scale it up and you
start talking about societies on the
scale of hundreds of millions of people
or billions of people we're at a turning
point in history where some countries
are going to embrace allowing unlimited
amounts of drug use unlimited amounts of
video game playing unlimited amounts of
self-indulgence and some countries are
going to start drawing the line the way
china has and saying look
you know your life means more than this
you were born for a purpose better than
this you have to start holding yourself
to a higher standard of this and we the
government are going to hold you to that
higher standard whether or not you or
your parents volunteer to do so
themselves